# Sales-Forecasting
A key value that drives businesses to success is their ability to accurately predict incoming revenues. Such value is called sales forecasting. The process of sales forecasting is essential in the business field for multiple reasons, the main reason is to come up with a solid and reliable business strategy. Additionally, it’s beneficial in allocating resources, managing the cash flow, and having an early response to future business demands. Although the previous efforts proved their effectiveness, they were mainly focused on a singular type of analysis. Thus, the proposed work aims to include various types of analysis to provide a comprehensive perspective. This project aims to enhance sale forecasting methods by utilizing Artificial Intelligence techniques. To illustrate, the type of analysis used is the predictive analysis. The predictive analysis deploys machine learning and ensemble techniques to predict sales. Also, the BigMart open-source dataset is used to train and test the model. However, as now is the age of Big Data, the process of predicting a reliable sales forecast is required for any organization to thrive in its field. Two machine learning models are deployed in predicting the sales, the Random Forest and the XGBoost. The results showed that the XGBoost outperformed the Random Forest with an R-squared value of 0.7456 when applied with grid search. While the Random Forest got an R-squared value of 0.7426, when applied with grid search and feature selection.
